SPAMBOX Help
We are using one of the most advanced SPAM filters on the internet.
It continually adapts itself to detect spam.

For the most part it does a good job, but occasionally a spam slips
through.

When you receive a spam, you have a choice to either just delete it
and move on, or report it to the spam filter to help improve its
performance. To report the spam select the message in your inbox,
right-click and select "Forward as attachment." (If your email
software doesn't support "Forward as attachment" simply forward
the mail.) Address it to spambox-spam@mydomain.com and click send.
You've done your duty and added the evil spam to the spam filter's
collection.

Just to remind you of the basic operation of our spam filter:
1) Anyone you email will never have a message blocked.
2) Never email a spammer -- you validate their address authorizing
them to spam us.
3) Don't forward spam -- it makes the spam filter think we like it.
4) Report spam by forwarding it to the spambox-spam@mydomain.com
address.
5) The spam filter keeps track of mail we send and spam we receive --
if an incoming message is not from someone we've emailed and it's
more like the mail we send than the spam we receive then it gets
through. Otherwise it's blocked and the sender gets the message,
"Mail appears to be unsolicited -- report errors to
postmaster@ourhost.com"
6) If you become aware that mail you want is being blocked send the
sender an email so their mail isn't blocked any more.

Function of special adresses 

spambox-spam 			- spam report
spambox-notspam 		- false-positive report

spambox-white 			- request to add addresses to the whitelist
spambox-notwhite 		- request to remove addresses from the whitelist

spambox-persblack      - request to add addresses to your personal blacklist
spambox-persnotblack   - request to remove addresses from your personal blacklist

You can force a complete report about all your personal black list entries by defining 
an email address that begins with 'reportpersblack' in a remove request : eg: reportpersblack@anydomain.com