How do I use the email interface?
 SPAMBOX's email interface is an easy way to add/remove addresses to the
 whitelist/redlist, report spam, or false-positives.
 To use it you must have it enabeled in the configuration, and have
 names set for the addresses.
 The interface accepts only mail addressed to addresses at any of
 your localdomains, and only from "Accept All Mail" hosts, or
 authenticated SMTP connections.

  spambox-white   -- for whitelist additions
  spambox-notwhite   -- for whitelist removals
  spambox-spam    -- to report spam that got through
  spambox-notspam -- to report miscategorized spam

There are basically two different mailflows for outgoing mails possible:
- User -> SPAMBOX -> Mailserver -> Internet
- User -> Mailserver -> SPAMBOX -> Additional SMTP Server -> Internet

A: User -> SPAMBOX -> Mailserver -> Internet
 Assuming that your local-domain is mydomain.com, to add addresses to
 the whitelist, create a message to spambox-white@mydomain.com. You can
 either put the addresses in the body of the message, or as
 recipients of the message. For example, if you wanted to add all the
 addresses in your address book to the whitelist, create a message to
 spambox-white@mydomain.com and then add your entire address book to the
 BCC part of the message and click send. Note that no mail will be
 delivered to any address except spambox-white@mydomain.com (and that
 won't actually be passed to your mail transport). Within a short
 time (depends on your mail server) you'll receive a response from
 SPAMBOX showing the results of your mail.
 To report a spam that got through, simply forward the mail to spambox-
 spam@mydomain.com. It's best to forward it as an attachment, but you
 can just forward it normally if you must. In a short time you
 will receive a confirmation.  The process is the same to report a
 miscategorized spam, but send it to spambox-notspam@mydomain.com.
 Of course all these addresses can be changed to suit your sites
 preferences.

 Any connection blessed by one of these will (a) be able to relay mail, and (b) be able to access the
 email interface.
 1) mail from a "allow all mail" host
 2) mail with a SMTP AUTH affermative response
 3) mail through the relay port
 4) mail approved for relaying by popb4smtp
 5) addresses in EmailSenderOK

B: User -> Mailserver -> SPAMBOX -> Additional SMTP Server -> Internet
SPAMBOX's email interface allows you to send messages to the SPAMBOX server
 to add addresses to the whitelist, report spam, or report a false-positive.
 If your clients use Exchange, Notes, and/or a RelayHost / RelayPort setup, this feature becomes more complicated.
SPAMBOX is looking for it's command addresses at one of its localdomains. 
However your mail server will not accept mail for SPAMBOX's addresses (and if it does, it will never be passed to SPAMBOX). 
The work-around is to find a domain you never expect to actually send mail to,
 tell SPAMBOX it is local, and use that domain for SPAMBOX commands. 
So you could add spamreport.gov to SPAMBOX's localdomains, and direct whitelist additions to spambox-white@spamreport.gov.

Please note that the spambox-white address cannot see bcc addresses this way, and cannot prevent delivery to people.
 Consequently if you use this configuration, be sure you only put addresses in the body of your mail message.
 Don't include them in the delivery part of the message. 

1) invent a "dummy" domain, like "spambox-nospam.org" (seems to be an available domain name)
2) tell SPAMBOX that this domain is one of your "local" domains
3) tell your users to send their spam to "spambox-spam@spambox-nospam.org"; 
instead of "spambox-spam@yourdomain.com"; or tell your Exchange-server to forward the later to the former.
 If yu prefer the "forwarding" approach,
 you can pick a dummy domain name that is more unlikely to be ever registered (like foo123blob.tac), 
as nobody has to remember the name.

IF you have SPAMBOX on the outbound channel - as you should for the auto-whitelist function to work 
- and your Exchange is using the SPAMBOX-relay-Port to deliever external mails, 
then the server thinks it is "external" and hands it over to delivery. 
SPAMBOX thinks it's "local" and processes the magic-names as expected.